Data Transfer
=============

This example illustrates how to transfer data back and forth between
host and device.

There are several ways to creating openCL buffers. The most recommended
way is to create the cl::Buffer object using the CL_MEM_COPY_HOST_PTR
flag as below:

.. code:: cpp

   std::vector<int, aligned_allocator<int>> host_memory(elements, 42);
   cl::Buffer buffer_in(context, CL_MEM_COPY_HOST_PTR, size_in_bytes,host_memory.data(),nullptr));

For above case, it expect that Host memory pointer should be aligned to
Memory for the same aligned_allocator is used. If host pointer is not
aligned, it will generate the warning and will involve extra memcpy from
host memory to Buffer Memory.

After creating buffer using Host Mem Pointer, clEnqueueMigrateMemObjects
can be used for immediate migration of data without considering the fact
that data is actually needed or not by kernel operation.

.. code:: cpp

   cl::Buffer buffer_mem(context, CL_MEM_USE_HOST_PTR,size_in_bytes, host_memory2.data(),&err));
                 q.enqueueMigrateMemObjects({buffer_mem},0 /* 0 means from host*/));
                 q.enqueueMigrateMemObjects({buffer_mem},CL_MIGRATE_MEM_OBJECT_HOST));

While creating buffer, Buffer type can also be specified as below:

.. code:: cpp

   cl::Buffer buffer_in(context, CL_MEM_READ_ONLY, size_in_bytes);
   cl::Buffer buffer_out(context, CL_MEM_WRITE_ONLY, size_in_bytes);
   cl::Buffer buffer_inout(context, CL_MEM_READ_WRITE, size_in_bytes);

The CL_MEM_READ_ONLY flag indicates that the Kernel can only read from
this location. The host can write only to this buffer. The
CL_MEM_WRITE_ONLY flag indicates that the Kernel can only Write to this
location. The host can read only from this buffer. The CL_MEM_READ_WRITE
flag indicates that the both kernel and host can do read and write
operation to this location.

To transfer the data from host Buffer memory to device memory
enqueueWriteBuffer API can be used as below:

.. code:: cpp

   q.enqueueWriteBuffer(
     buffer,             // buffer on the FPGA
     CL_FALSE,            // non-blocking call
     0,                  // buffer offset in bytes
     size_in_bytes,      // Size in bytes
     host_memory.data(), // Pointer to the data to copy
     );

``enqueueWriteBuffer()`` API call is a request to enqueue write
operation. This API call does not immediately initiate the data
transfer. Data transfer happens when a kernel is enqueue which has
respective buffer as one of the kernel arguments. So for such kernel
call, runtime first transfer the data from host to device and later
trigger the kernel call.

Data can be transferred back to the host using the read buffer operation
as below:

.. code:: cpp

   q.enqueueReadBuffer(
       buffer,  // This buffers data will be read
       CL_TRUE, // blocking call
       0,       // offset
       size_in_bytes,
       host_memory.data(), // Data will be stored here
   );

Mapping and unmapping buffers is another way to transfer memory to and
from the FPGA. This operation gives you a pointer that can be freely
modified by your host application

.. code:: cpp

   void *ptr = q.enqueueMapBuffer(
       buffer,       // buffer
       CL_TRUE,      // blocking call
       CL_MAP_WRITE, // Indicates we will be writing
       0,            // buffer offset
       size_in_bytes // size in bytes
   ); 
   int *data_ptr = reinterpret_cast<int *>(ptr);

You can now assign values to the pointer ``data_ptr`` just like a
regular pointer. The buffer must be unmapped before it can be used in
other operations

.. code:: cpp

   q.enqueueUnmapMemObject(buffer, ptr /*pointer returned by Map call*/);
